Now that we've seen what Spring Boot Actuator is and what it can do,
you might be wondering what's up with the name,
what is an actuator?
What exactly does it do?
And in the traditional sense,
an actuator is a component that's responsible for
controlling a mechanism or a system.
Broadly and generally speaking,
an actuator is triggered by a signal and generates some output and that
output could be something like movement or motion and that movement or
motion can then be used to control something.
Well in the same sense as a real-life actuator,
Spring Boot Actuator lets you monitor and interact or control your application.
You can send it signals and it will output information like
what's the current status of the application,
is it healthy,
is it unhealthy or you can send it signals to cause it to do something,
to update configuration or to change something in the application.
And one of the really nice benefits of Spring Boot Actuator is that it
comes with a number of features built-in by default.
So these things that you can signal, you don't have to develop them yourself.
They are automatically included just by adding Spring
Boot Actuator into your project.
To kind of give you a better idea of some of the
features that are built-in by default,
I've pulled up the Spring Boot reference documentation and I'm looking at the
built-in endpoints that come with Spring Boot Actuator.
As you can see,
there are a number of different endpoints that are included by default.
There are endpoints for inspecting the configuration
properties in the application, there are flyway endpoints,
and environment endpoints, and info endpoints,
and in general,
there are a number of different endpoints that allow you to monitor,
manage introspect, and audit your application.
And even better is that these features are product ready,
they're not just features that are only supposed to
be used in development testing, no.
These are real solid features that you can benefit from in a production environment.